.\"
.\" mp4tagcli.1
.\"
.\" Copyright 2023-2024 Brad Lanam Pleasant Hill CA USA
.\"
.\" brad.lanam.di_at_gmail.com
.\"
.TH mp4tagcli 1 "28 Nov 2023"
.SH Name
mp4tagcli \- mp4 tag command line interface
.SH Synopsis
.\" mp4tagcli --version
.\" mp4tagcli --copyfrom in-filename --copyto out-filename
.\" mp4tagcli <filename> --clean
.\" mp4tagcli <filename> --duration
.\" mp4tagcli <filename> --asstream
.\" mp4tagcli <filename>
.\" [--binary] [<tag>={|<value>|<filename>}] ...]
.\" [--display <tag> [--dump=<filename>]]
.\" [--freespace <size>]
.\" [<tag>={|<value>|<filename>}] ...]
.B mp4tagcli
\fB\-\-version\fP
.br
.B mp4tagcli
\fB\-\-copyfrom\fP \fIinfile\fP
\fB\-\-copyto\fP \fIoutfile\fP
.br
.B mp4tagcli
\fIfilename\fP
\fB\-\-clean\fP
.br
.B mp4tagcli
\fIfilename\fP
\fB\-\-duration\fP
.br
.B mp4tagcli
\fIfilename\fP
\fB\-\-asstream\fP
.br
.B mp4tagcli
\fIfilename\fP
[\fB\-\-binary\fP]
[\fB\-\-display\fP \fItag\fP [\fB\-\-dump\fP \fIfilename\fP]]
[\fB\-\-freespace\fP \fIsize\fP]
[\fItag\fP={|\fIvalue\fP|\fIfilename\fP}]
.PP
.SH Description
\fImp4tagcli\fP is used to read and write tags from an MP4 audio or
video file.  Existing tags and existing custom tags will not be lost
when writing or replacing tags.
.PP
\fImp4tagcli\fP can be used as a command line interface to read and write MP4
audio tags, but it is also intended as an example on how to use the
\fIlibmp4tag\fP library, and thus includes other less useful options and
debugging modes.
.SH Overview
.PP
Tags may be specified without the preceding copyright symbol (\[co]).
Any tag that is three characters in length will have the
copyright symbol pre-pended.  This is a function of the
\fImp4tagcli\fP program and not the \fIlibmp4tag\fP library.
.PP
The \fBgnre\fP tag is automatically converted to \fB\[co]gen\fP.  It
is recommended to always use the \fBgen\fP tag.
.PP
When specifying a particular tag, a "\fBnot found\fP" message will be
displayed if the tag is not present (for display) or is not known
(when setting a tag).
.SS Arrays
.PP
Arrays can be specified by suffixing the tag name with a colon
and the index number.  e.g. \fBwrt:1\fP.  Arrays are only implemented
for string data.
.PP
Index values are relative, not absolute.  There will never be an array
with a empty slot.
.SS Cover Images
.PP
There may be more than one cover image present.  If there is more than
one cover image, the subsequent cover images will display a tag name
of \fBcovr:1\fP with the appropriate index value.
.PP
If there is a name associated with the cover image, the tag name will
be displayed as \fBcovr:1:name\fP using the appropriate index value.
.PP
The indexes are only used if there is already an existing cover image
at that index.  Setting a cover image at index 1 in a file with no cover
image present will place the cover image at index 0.
.SS Custom Tags
Custom tags are specified as \-\-\-\-:\fIAPP\fP:\fItagname\fP.  To
prevent the command line parser from recognizing a custom tag as an
option, the end of option specifier \-\- must be added to the
command line before the custom tag.
.PP
e.g. mp4tagcli sample.m4a \-\- \-\-\-\-:BDJ4:DANCE=Waltz
.PP
.SS Displaying Tag Information
.TP
\fBmp4tagcli\fP \fIfilename\fP
Running mp4tagcli without any arguments displays all tags and their
values for \fIfilename\fP.  The duration is also displayed.  Each tag is
output as \fItag\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP on a separate line.
.TP
\fBmp4tagcli\fP \fIfilename\fP {\fB\-u\fP|\fB\-\-duration\fP}
Prints the duration of the MP4 file without any label.
.TP
\fBmp4tagcli\fP \fIfilename\fP {\fB\-u\fP|\fB\-\-asstream\fP}
Processes the filename as a stream. This is purely for debugging
purposes.
.TP
\fBmp4tagcli\fP \fIfilename\fP \fB{\-d|\-\-display}\fP \fItag\fP
Display \fItag\fP and its value.
.SS Setting Tags
.TP
\fBmp4tagcli\fP \fIfilename\fP [\fB\-\-binary\fP] [\fItag\fP {|\fIvalue\fP|\fIfilename\fP} ...]
Without any value specified, the tag is removed from the MP4 file.
.IP
If a value is specified for a tag, the tag is set to \fIvalue\fP.
.IP
For tags with associated binary data (e.g. cover images), the data for
the tag is read from \fIfilename\fP.
.IP
The \fB\-\-binary\fP option is only used when setting a new tag with
binary data.  It is not necessary to use the \fB\-\-binary\fP option
with cover images or tags with existing binary data.
.IP
Multiple tags may be specified on the command line.
.IP
The \fB\-\-freespace\fP option is used to specify the size of the free
space box to create when the audio file is re-written.
.SS Removing All Tags
.TP
\fBmp4tagcli\fP \fIfilename\fP \fB\-\-clean\fP
Removes all tags from the MP4 file.
.PP
.SS Copying Tags
.TP
\fBmp4tagcli\fP {\fB\-f|\-\-copyfrom\fP} \fIinfile\fP {\fB\-t|\-\-copyto\fP} \fIoutfile\fP
Copies the tags from from \fIinfile\fP to \fIoutfile\fP.  Any existing
tags in \fIoutfile\fP are completely removed.
.PP
.SH See Also
\fBlibmp4tag\fP(3)
.SH Links
\fBMain\fP: https://sourceforge.net/p/libmp4tag/
.br
\fBWiki\fP: https://sourceforge.net/p/libmp4tag/wiki/
.br
\fBChange Log\fP: https://sourceforge.net/p/libmp4tag/wiki/ChangeLog/
.br
\fBBugs\fP: https://sourceforge.net/p/libmp4tag/tickets/
.SH Copyright
Copyright 2023-2024 Brad Lanam Pleasant Hill
CA USA
